knowledge.md, before:

# Maze Generation Project

## Project Goals

- Generate mazes using depth-first search
- Visualize maze generation in real-time
- Race two solvers using Trémaux's algorithm
- Support configurable maze resolution via URL params

## Architecture Approach

- Functional style with immutable state
- State machine pattern
- Separates concerns:
  - State management (updateState)
  - Rendering (renderState)
  - Initial setup (getInitialState)
- Pure functions for state transitions
- Same visual output and behavior as Version 1

## Key Algorithms

### Maze Generation

Uses randomized depth-first search:

1. Start from initial cell
2. Randomly choose unvisited neighbor
3. Remove wall between cells
4. Move to neighbor and repeat
5. Backtrack when no unvisited neighbors

### Maze Solving

Uses Trémaux's algorithm with randomness:

1. Mark passages when entering/exiting
2. At junction, prefer unmarked passages
3. Use random choice for equal options
4. Backtrack on doubly-marked passages
5. Trail shows last 15 positions with fading opacity

## URL Parameters

- cellSize: Controls maze resolution (default: 20)
  Example: /?cellSize=30

## Visual Style

- Background: #1a1a1a
- Walls: #4a4a4a
- Solver 1: Red with opacity trail
- Solver 2: Blue with opacity trail

## Verifying changes

After every code change, run the following commands and then fix any errors that resulted from your change:

- `pnpm check:ts`
- `pnpm test -- --run`
- `pnpm build`

Commit message:

add test for stuck state detection

knowledge.md, after:

# Maze Generation Project

## Project Goals

- Generate mazes using depth-first search
- Visualize maze generation in real-time
- Race two solvers using Trémaux's algorithm
- Support configurable maze resolution via URL params

## Architecture Approach

- Functional style with immutable state
- State machine pattern
- Separates concerns:
  - State management (updateState)
  - Rendering (renderState)
  - Initial setup (getInitialState)
- Pure functions for state transitions
- Same visual output and behavior as Version 1

## Key Algorithms

### Maze Generation

Uses randomized depth-first search:

1. Start from initial cell
2. Randomly choose unvisited neighbor
3. Remove wall between cells
4. Move to neighbor and repeat
5. Backtrack when no unvisited neighbors

### Maze Solving

Uses Trémaux's algorithm with randomness:

1. Mark passages when entering/exiting
2. At junction, prefer unmarked passages
3. Use random choice for equal options
4. Backtrack on doubly-marked passages
5. Trail shows last 15 positions with fading opacity

Known Issues:
- Solvers can get stuck in certain maze configurations
- Built-in detection throws error if solver stays in same position for 2 ticks
- Error includes state dump for debugging stuck conditions

## URL Parameters

- cellSize: Controls maze resolution (default: 20)
  Example: /?cellSize=30

## Visual Style

- Background: #1a1a1a
- Walls: #4a4a4a
- Solver 1: Red with opacity trail
- Solver 2: Blue with opacity trail

## Verifying changes

After every code change, run the following commands and then fix any errors that resulted from your change:

- `pnpm check:ts`
- `pnpm test -- --run`
- `pnpm build`
